this is Kyle from Texas red worms calm
that's that's Gus barking in background
this is my Texas worm harvester my first
edition I built it out of materials that
I had laying around and the most
expensive pieces that I had to purchase
were these black tubs and the galvanized
hard work they were about 17 bucks a
roll and the black tubs were about 14
dollars or a little over $13 but the
lumber I had laying around from previous
projects and the front and back end the
loader and the unloader we're circuits
that we purchased some tractor supply
that we fed to our cows that were empty
the galvanized pipe that is the axle I
had laying around and the link that was
was basically I built the the project or
built the harvester around the size of
the catching tubs and that galvanized
pipe that's the axle anyway it's not
gonna win any beauty contests or like I
said in a previous post or any
craftsmanship Awards but it works pretty
good I've run it through a few times and
you can see the the finer product in
this tub right here and that's a more
coarse compost and then your larger
objects and your worms are going to come
out on this bucket and here at the end
so for these first few runs I've just
been using I've been using compost I've
been sifting through my compost pile
just to check it out and kind of
recalibrate it and make sure it's kind
of doing what I want I just strung up
this tarp here to try to I'll probably
do something a little better later on
but that'll help kind of feed make sure
the castings fall into those tubs and
you'll see on the construction here I've
got that axle I've got two struts a
little 2x4
pieces that are that I ran through the
center to kind of stabilize the tubs on
either end the buckets on either end and
and that axle and then I just put a
piece this little piece right here is
running down the center to act as kind
of a paddle to keep it started but I'm
going to see if I can show you how it
how it works here
so you know there's it's not exactly
what I want it just yet but it's doing
pretty good and this is compost it's not
my warm bed but you will get some little
little bitty guys stuck in the mesh here
and those are actually European night
crawlers or what we've always referred
to in Texas as just earthworms and so
they're coming up into my compost pile
of feeding on that organic matter and
getting warm I'm assuming in this this
unseasonally cold winter we're having
here in San Antonio
after the clean-out today this is some
of the coarser material that was was
harvested but it is it is really nice I
could run it through again and separate
a little more and here's a look at the
the finer product he came through the I
guess the one-eighth inch screen anyway
that's a little bit of worm castings but
mostly its compost I did one worm run
with one of my flow through bins and
boxed up the worms there got a box of
night crawlers and then most of them are
red worm